= K3 Authorization

== Introduction

This gem adds flexible authorization capabilities to Rails engines by allowing
gem developers to add an authorization definition file, and then use any
authorization libraries they wish in their gem (CanCan, etc).

For example, there may be several gems that each use different authorization
libraries.  One may use CanCan, another may use declarative_authorization, and
another may have its own home-grown authorization implementation.  This is
fine as long as each gem provides a config/authorization.rb file defining the
abilities it recognizes and some default permission sets suggesting how these
could be used.  This gem (k3_authorization) reads in those files and extends
Rails engines to expose those settings.

For example, SomeClass::Engine.authorization will return an AuthorizationSet
object, containing the details from the authorization.rb file.

This gem provides an API or middle ground so that gem developers can include
authorization features in their code.  And application developers may use
multiple, separately developed gems and have them all work together.

In a full Rails app, an authorization glue gem can then pull authorization
definitions from multiple gems together and present a complete, cohesive user
experience to the admin user.


== Authorization glue gem

Another gem (separate from this one), must be used to pull together all the
authorization definitions into a usable system.  This gem must define:

* K3::Authorization::BaseController - inherits from ApplicationController
  * k3_user - returns logged in user or faux "guest" user that returns guest privileges and responds_to k3_permitted?
  * k3_authorization_required - gets called when authorization fails in a controller
* Mostly likely a user interface for letting the end-user specify authorizations

Some examples of authorization glue gems include:
* k3_trivial_authorization
* k3_spree_authorization
* ...

Each application should only be using *one* of these authorization glue gems.
If none of the provided glue gems suit your needs, you can create a new one.

The k3_authorization gem and the authorization glue gems are intended to be
authorization-library-agnostic, and as such they should not include any
references to specific authorization libraries like CanCan. The decision as to
which specific authorization library to use (if any) is left to the specific
(non-authorization) K3 CMS gems (see below). The k3_authorization gem and the
authorization glue gems need to be written in such a way tha they don't care
which underlying authorization library is used by the various participating K3
CMS gems; they need to work with *all* of them.


== How individual gems define abilities and permission sets

In addition to the k3_authorization gem and the authorization glue gem that you
choose to use, you will of course have many "normal" K3 CMS gems installed in
your application. These are the gems which actually provide the useful
abilities that the user can *do* if they have the necessary permissions and
authorized to do those things.

So these other gems need some way to inform the authorization gems which
abilities it provides to users. That is done with a config/authorization.rb
file provided by each the specific gem that has authorization requirments.

=== Step 1: Provide an config/authorization.rb file

This file defines/provides:
* suggested permission sets
  You must at a minimum provide a :default permission set.
* abilities that your gem needs/uses for functionality provided by your gem
* for each suggested permission sets that you listed, you need to define which
  of your gem's abilities should be permitted/allowed by each of the 4 built-in
  K3 CMS roles:
  1. guest (not logged in)
  2. users
  3. managers
  4. admins

Here is a sample authorization.rb file (k3_pages/config/authorization.rb) that demonstrates the basics of the DSL:

    MyGem::Engine.authorizations.draw do
      # First define and describe some suggested permission sets.
      suggested_permission_set :default, 'Allows managers to create & edit all pages, and delete their own pages'
      suggested_permission_set :user_creation, 'Allows users to create and manage their own pages'
      
      # Context makes all abilities defined within to be prefixed with the
      # singularized version of the given string.  Contexts can be nested.
      context :pages do
        ability :view, 'Can view a page'  # Creates :view_page ability
        ability :edit, 'Can edit a page'
        ability :edit_own, 'Can edit only my pages'
        ability :create, 'Can create a new page'
        ability :delete, 'Can delete a page'
        ability :delete_own, 'Can delete only pages created by me'
        
        # This defines the abilities for the default suggested permission set
        # in terms of the four default roles (guest, user, manager, admin)
        extend_suggested_permission_set :default do
          guest :has => :view
          # NOTE: :includes_role without first defining the role to be included
          # will cause an error.  The included abilities are limited to the
          # context of this extend_suggested_permission_set block.
          user :includes_role => :guest
          manager :has => [:create, :edit_own, :delete_own], :includes_role => :user
          # :all only applies to the abilities in this context (:pages)
          admin :has => :all
        end
        
        # Define abilities for the suggested permission set.
        extend_suggested_permission_set :user_creation do
          guest :has => :view
          user :has => [:create, :edit_own, :delete_own], :includes_role => :guest
          manager :has => :all
          admin :has => :all
        end
      end
      
      # Another example, in the context of comments.
      context :comments do
        ability :create, 'Can comment on a post'
        ...
       
        extend_suggested_permission_set(:default) do
          guest :has => :create, :edit_own, :delete_own, :view
          ...
        end
      end
    end

Note that:

    context :pages do
      context :comments do
        ability :view, 'Can view a page'
        ability :edit, 'Can edit a page'
      end
    end

is identical to:

    ability :view_page_comment, 'Can view a page'
    ability :edit_page_comment, 'Can edit a page'

It looks like admin does not automatically include the abilities of manager,
manager does not automatically include the abilities of user, and so on. But
usually, you probably *would* want higher roles to include all the abilities of
lesser roles. So you need to remember to pass :includes_role => <lesser_role>
to explicitly include the roles of the lesser role.

=== Step 2: Provide the glue between the library-agnostic K3 CMS authorization libraries and the authorization library used by your gem/engine

This step is optional and only if you need it, but you may need to translate
the relatively generic K3 CMS abilities specified in your config/authorization.rb
into more specific details specific to the models in your class.

For example, in the example below, we create a CanCan::Ability class that takes
as its input the generic K3 CMS abilities defined in config/authorization.rb
(:view_page, :edit_page, :edit_own_page) and translates that into which
specific *models* can be accessed for users with each of those abilities, and
even which *records* from those models the user is permitted to read or to
update (for example, can :update, K3::Page, :author_id => user.id).

Here's an example of some glue code between k3_authorization and CanCan (from k3_pages/app/models/k3/pages/ability.rb):

  module K3
    module Pages
      class Ability
        include CanCan::Ability

        def initialize(user)
          if user.k3_permitted?(:view_page)
            can :read, K3::Page
          end

          if user.k3_permitted?(:edit_page)
            can :read, K3::Page
            can :update, K3::Page
          end

          if user.k3_permitted?(:edit_own_page)
            can :read, K3::Page
            can :update, K3::Page, :author_id => user.id
          end

          # ...
        end
      end
    end
  end

This example uses CanCan, but as mentioned elsewhere, you are free to use any authorization library you wish.


== Summary of files in k3_authorization

* authorization_set.rb - defines AuthorizationSet which stores a set of abilities, and a set of suggested_permission_sets for an engine
* engine_additions.rb - extends the Rails::Engine class to return an AuthorizationSet object
* exceptions.rb - defines several custom exceptions, used by this extension
* parser.rb - defines a Parser class to parse the authorization.rb file of an engine and store the results in an AuthorizationSet
* permission_set.rb = defines PermissionSet which stores the name, description, and abilities for default roles: admin, manager, member, guest
* railtie.rb - Contains rails initialization which loads authorizations for all Engines.


== Specs

To run specs, cd to this directory and run:  bundle exec rspec spec

== License

Copyright 2010 K3 Integrations, LLC

Licensed under the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 3 (see License.txt).
